WEB601 Journal Entry 6
In class today we started to learn about JavaScript.  Ali first took us through an overview of the most used and requested coding skill sets based on a slack survey, around the top of the list was knowledge of JavaScript based frameworks like React and Angular.
Then those who needed to downloaded and installed Nodejs (a popular JavaScript runtime application) before we created a new Repo and started to run through some of the initial JavaScript declarations that we will be using, such as
Declaring a variable using Var, Const and Let and the differences between using these declarations and good practice in assigning these variables values.  We also look at the Number declaration and some of the operators that could be used to create mathematic functions.
After the JavaScript exercise, groups spoke briefly about their experiences using GitHub as a group to make our basic application wireframes.  It was really interesting to hear how everybody got on and I think that the whole exercise was really good practice for us in using GitHub in a team environment and for me it really highlighted the need to have good communication and an organised workflow.
In addition to the classwork, I have been continuing to work on the code academy CSS tutorial (nearly finished) and I will add their JS tutorial to my to do list. 
I am also starting to think about what could be a good webpage/application to make for the overall project, I’m currently leaning towards some kind of group management page that would allow users to search and find other members and their information and maybe search and post events? I will go back over the requirements in the marking schedule, but I think something along these lines would give me plenty of room to incorporate JS methods for retrieving, sorting and displaying data that could even be stored in server database? 
Ill continue to think about that one as I don’t want to take on more than I can realistically achieve with my currently limited skills.
